# Course Description

In this seminar, we take the programmatic text “We are All Very Anxious” by The
Institute for Precarious Consciousness (2014) as a touchstone. Taking up their
injunction that we need to build “machines for fighting anxiety”, students will
situate their art practice to pursue a research question intervening between the
social and the psychic, the ecological and the cultural. Through a blend of
seminar discussion, research, workshop, tutorial, we will examine and engage
contemporary techniques that help us to ask what anxiety is in 2024, what it
does, and most importantly, what it could do. Students should be prepared to
exercise their metier towards new ends. Broken into thirds, the course pairs
traditions of theorizing anxiety with techniques that appropriate the
conditioning of aesthetic experience towards the production of subjectivity.

We explore the psychoanalytic anxiety of Freud and Lacan as well as the mental
ecosophy of Felix Guattari through works of theory-fiction or hyperstition —-
quasi-archeological texts that generate worlds through bifurcation, paradox, and
supposition. Second, Critical making, creating “objects to think with” that
enact critiques and help us reorient to our problems, allows for a unique
approach to the psychopolitical moblizations of anxiety as theorized by Byung
Chul Han and Renata Salecl. Finally, we approach a materialist reading of
anxiety as found in Gilbert Simondon’s philosophy of technology through works of
speculative design.

In 3 tutorial/workshops, students will be invited to extend
their practice through computational media techniques, including a generative
text in HTML, generative risographic duplication, and a generative zine.
